>> Narrator: THE MURDER OF A
BEAUTIFUL YOUNG WOMAN WENT
UNSOLVED FOR YEARS -- A MURDER
WITH FORENSIC EVIDENCE AND
PLENTY OF SUSPECTS.
BUT SOMETIMES, THAT'S NOT
ENOUGH.
IT TOOK THE VICTIM'S 9-YEAR-OLD
CHILD, NOTATIONS IN A DIARY, AND
FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY TO DETERMINE
WHICH FORENSIC EVIDENCE WAS
IMPORTANT AND WHICH TO IGNORE.
30-YEAR-OLD KATHLEEN LIPSCOMB
WAS TRYING TO FIND HER WAY --
RAISING TWO YOUNG CHILDREN WHILE
AT THE SAME TIME WORKING AS A
NURSE IN SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS.
[ MARIACHI MUSIC PLAYS ]
>> SHE WAS A VERY CARING PERSON.
SHE LOVED HER FAMILY.
SHE STAYED IN CONSTANT CONTACT
WITH US.
>> Narrator: KATHLEEN HAD BEEN
MARRIED FOR EIGHT YEARS TO
BILL LIPSCOMB, A SERGEANT IN THE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, BUT
THEY HAD RECENTLY SEPARATED.
THEIR ARRANGEMENT WAS FOR BILL
TO TAKE CARE OF THEIR CHILDREN
ON WEEKENDS.
BUT ONE SUNDAY NIGHT, KATHLEEN
DIDN'T ARRIVE TO PICK THEM UP AS
PLANNED.
BILL DROVE THE CHILDREN TO
KATHLEEN'S APARTMENT, BUT SHE
WASN'T THERE, AND HER CAR WAS
MISSING, SO THEY LEFT NOTES ON
HER DOOR.
THE NEXT MORNING, THERE WAS
STILL NO SIGN OF HER.
>> ONE OF HER CO-WORKERS CALLED
ME AND TOLD ME THAT THEY WERE
WORRIED, THAT SHE HADN'T SHOWED
UP FOR WORK.
>> MY STOMACH GOT KNOTTED UP FOR
A MINUTE, AND THEN I THOUGHT,
"NO, YOU KNOW, BILL HAD THE
KIDS.
KATHLEEN PROBABLY WENT OUT WITH
SOME GIRLFRIENDS OR SOMETHING.
SHE'LL BE IN.
SHE'S JUST LATE TODAY."
>> Narrator: LATER THAT SAME
DAY, A MAN SPOTTED A NUDE BODY
ALONG A DESERTED ROAD OUTSIDE OF
TOWN.
IT WAS KATHLEEN LIPSCOMB.
IT WAS CLEAR SHE HAD BEEN
MURDERED ELSEWHERE.
>> WITHOUT A DOUBT, SHE HAD BEEN
TRANSPORTED FROM POINT "A" TO
THIS POINT, "B," BEING WHERE SHE
WAS LEFT.
>> Narrator: THE FACT THAT
KATHLEEN'S CLOTHING HAD BEEN
ROLLED, NOT FOLDED, TOLD
INVESTIGATORS SOMETHING
IMPORTANT.
>> THAT'S DEFINITELY MILITARY.
JUST WITHOUT A DOUBT, THAT'S THE
ONLY PEOPLE THAT I HAVE EVER
SEEN ROLL THEIR CLOTHES IN THAT
FASHION IS A MILITARY-TYPE
PERSON.
>> Narrator: UNFORTUNATELY,
THERE WERE NO DISCERNABLE TIRE
OR FOOTWEAR IMPRESSIONS NEAR THE
BODY.
KATHLEEN'S ESTRANGED HUSBAND,
BILL, WAS IMMEDIATELY CALLED IN
FOR QUESTIONING.
>> I DID CHECK HIM TO SEE IF
THERE WERE ANY WOUNDS ON HIS
BODY -- POSSIBLY ANY DEFENSIVE
WOUNDS -- TO SEE IF THERE WAS
ANY KIND OF SCRAPES, BRUISINGS,
ANYTHING UNDER HIS FINGERNAILS
THAT WOULD INDICATE WHERE HE HAD
SCRATCHED ANYBODY, AND COULD
FIND NONE.
>> Narrator: THE CHILDREN HAVE
TOLD POLICE THAT THEIR FATHER
WAS WITH THEM THE ENTIRE
WEEKEND, CONFIRMING HIS ALIBI.
AT THE AUTOPSY, THE MEDICAL
EXAMINER DETERMINED THE CAUSE OF
DEATH WAS STRANGULATION.
IT APPEARED KATHLEEN HAD SEXUAL
RELATIONS 24 HOURS BEFORE HER
DEATH.
FRIENDS TOLD POLICE THAT
KATHLEEN HAD BEEN DATING A
MARRIED DOCTOR IN TOWN,
DAVID PEARL.
>> KATHLEEN AND DR. PEARL WORKED
TOGETHER.
THROUGH THEIR CLOSE ASSOCIATION,
KATHLEEN FELL IN LOVE WITH HIM,
AND SHE WAS THOROUGHLY CONFIDENT
THAT HE LOVED HER, TOO.
HE PROMISED TO GET A DIVORCE AND
MARRY HER.
>> WE FOUND OUT THAT DR. PEARL
HAD HAD MANY RELATIONSHIPS AND
TOLD HIS GIRLFRIENDS THAT HE
WAS, IN FACT, SEPARATED FROM HIS
WIFE WHEN HE WASN'T, AND, YOU
KNOW, JUST THE JEALOUS EX-WIFE
KIND OF THING -- THAT WAS ONE
CONCERN OF MINE.
>> Narrator: DR. PEARL ADMITTED
HE WAS WITH KATHLEEN DURING THE
WEEKEND BUT INSISTED HE HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH HER MURDER,
AND INVESTIGATORS HAD ANOTHER
SUSPECT.
VINCENT ROBIDEAU, A NURSE,
WORKED WITH KATHLEEN AT THE
HOSPITAL AND LIVED IN THE SAME
APARTMENT COMPLEX.
HE HADN'T SHOWN UP FOR WORK,
EITHER.
>> HE HAD LEFT TOWN, HE DIDN'T
EVEN GO BACK TO PICK UP HIS
PAYCHECK, NOR DID HE EVEN
REQUEST IT BE SENT TO HIM.
>> Narrator: WITH SO MANY
SUSPECTS, INVESTIGATORS HARDLY
KNEW WHERE TO START.
>> Narrator: ONE WEEK AFTER
KATHLEEN LIPSCOMB'S MURDER, HER
CAR WAS FOUND IN A RESTAURANT
PARKING LOT NOT FAR FROM HER
APARTMENT.
INVESTIGATORS FOUND NO FOREIGN
FINGERPRINTS ON OR IN THE CAR.
TO DETERMINE THE TIME OF
KATHLEEN'S DEATH, MEDICAL
EXAMINER DR. ROBERT BUX HAD
TWO WAYS TO TELL.
>> SHE HAD EATEN CHINESE FOOD.
IT WAS BASICALLY UNDIGESTED,
WHICH INDICATES THAT SHE HAD
EATEN IN A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME
PRIOR TO HER DEATH.
>> Narrator: AND THE MARKS ON
KATHLEEN'S LEGS WERE IDENTIFIED
AS ANT BITES AND HELPED
ESTABLISH A TIME FRAME.
>> MOST OF THE ANT ACTIVITY
OCCURS DURING DAYLIGHT HOURS, SO
THAT PROBABLY OCCURRED BEGINNING
AROUND DAWN ON THAT MORNING.
>> Narrator: THESE TWO
INDICATORS MEANT KATHLEEN HAD
PROBABLY BEEN KILLED AROUND
DINNERTIME ON SUNDAY NIGHT AND
DUMPED IN THE FIELD BEFORE DAWN.
FORENSIC INVESTIGATORS FOUND
FOUR STRANDS OF RED HUMAN HAIR
ON KATHLEEN'S CLOTHING.
UNDER A STEREOMICROSCOPE,
SCIENTISTS NOTICED THE HAIRS HAD
NO ROOT.
>> AT THE ROOT END, YOU SHOULD
SEE THE ROOT, WHICH IS A
BULB-SHAPED STRUCTURE, DEPENDING
ON WHAT THE STAGE OF THE HAIR
GROWTH IS.
>> Narrator: WHEN MAGNIFIED 100
TIMES, YOU CAN SEE EVIDENCE THAT
THE HAIR WAS DYED.
>> MANY TIMES YOU WILL SEE AN
ACTUAL DEMARCATION LINE BETWEEN
THE ORIGINAL COLOR OF THE HAIR
AT THE ROOT END TO THE DYED
COLOR OF THE END TOWARDS THE TIP
END OF THE HAIR.
>> Narrator: ALL FOUR HAIRS
SHOWED THE SAME DYE PATTERN.
WHEN COMPARED, THE HAIRS WERE
NOT SIMILAR TO KATHLEEN'S
ESTRANGED HUSBAND, BILL, OR HER
BOYFRIEND, DR. DAVID PEARL.
AT THE TIME, GENETIC TESTING WAS
STILL YEARS AWAY.
>> THE HAIR WAS MINUS ITS ROOTS.
BACK IN 1986 -- IT IS THEN THE
LATE '80s -- THE FORENSIC
TECHNOLOGY WAS NOT AS ADVANCED
AS IT IS TODAY IN 2003, SO
BEYOND THAT POINT, THAT'S AS FAR
AS WE COULD GO.
>> Narrator: ABOUT THE ONLY
BRIGHT SPOT IN THE INVESTIGATION
WAS WHEN INVESTIGATORS LOCATED
VINCENT ROBIDEAU, KATHLEEN'S
CO-WORKER AND NEIGHBOR WHO
DISAPPEARED THE SAME WEEKEND SHE
WAS MURDERED.
>> HE HAD GONE BACK TO
GALVESTON, WHERE HE WAS FROM,
AND GOT A JOB THERE AS A NURSE
WITH A LOCAL HOSPITAL BECAUSE HE
HAD A FIGHT WITH HIS BOYFRIEND,
AND THEREFORE, HE JUST DIDN'T
WANT ANYTHING TO DO WITH
SAN ANTONIO AGAIN.
>> Narrator: ROBIDEAU WAS NO
LONGER A SUSPECT.
>> WE HAD HIT A POINT WHERE WE
DIDN'T FEEL LIKE WE WERE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO SOLVE IT WITHOUT
SOME BIG BREAK, AND WE JUST DID
NOT FEEL THAT THAT BREAK WOULD
EVER COME.
>> Narrator: THEN INVESTIGATORS
GOT ANOTHER TIP -- KATHLEEN'S
NEIGHBOR SAID SHE SAW A
SUSPICIOUS PERSON LEAVING
KATHLEEN'S APARTMENT ON THE SAME
DAY HER BODY HAD BEEN FOUND.
>> THE NEIGHBOR ACTUALLY JUST
SAW THIS REDHEADED LADY WALK UP
TO THE DOOR, AND THEN A FEW
MINUTES LATER, WALK AWAY FROM
THE DOOR.
>> Narrator: WAS THIS MYSTERIOUS
WOMAN KATHLEEN'S KILLER?
>> Narrator: FOR TWO LONG YEARS,
INVESTIGATORS SEARCHED FOR
KATHLEEN LIPSCOMB'S KILLER.
KATHLEEN'S FAMILY ALWAYS
SUSPECTED THAT HER ESTRANGED
HUSBAND, BILL, WAS SOMEHOW
INVOLVED.
JUST SEVEN MONTHS BEFORE THE
MURDER, BILL HAD INCREASED
KATHLEEN'S LIFE INSURANCE TO
$315,000.
THE FAMILY TURNED TO A PRIVATE
INVESTIGATOR, TOM BEVANS, FOR
HELP.
BEVANS EXAMINED ALL OF THE
PERSONAL ITEMS FROM KATHLEEN'S
APARTMENT.
IN HER DIARY, BEVANS FOUND TWO
ITEMS OF INTEREST.
THE FIRST WAS AN UNUSUAL
REFERENCE.
IT SAID, "BASEBALL TOURNAMENT.
SHANNON GILBERT THERE."
>> WHEN I FIRST CAME ACROSS THE
NAME SHANNON GILBERT, I DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT TO MAKE OF IT.
IT WAS OBVIOUSLY A NAME I HAD
NEVER SEEN OR I NEVER HEARD OF,
AND SO MY QUESTION WAS, WHY DID
KATHLEEN WRITE IT DOWN?
OBVIOUSLY IT MEANT SOMETHING TO
HER.
>> Narrator: A BACKGROUND CHECK
REVEALED THAT GILBERT WAS IN THE
AIR FORCE WITH KATHLEEN'S
HUSBAND, BILL, AND THERE WERE
RUMORS THE TWO WERE HAVING A
SEXUAL AFFAIR.
BEVANS WENT TO VISIT
SHANNON GILBERT.
>> SHE SAID, "IS THIS ABOUT
BILL LIPSCOMB?"
WE SAID, "YES, MA'AM, IT IS."
SHE SAYS, "I WILL NEED AN
ATTORNEY," AND AT THAT POINT, I
KNEW I HAD SOMETHING.
>> Narrator: BEVANS FOUND
ANOTHER INTERESTING ENTRY IN
KATHLEEN'S DIARY.
IT SAID, "NUMEROUS CALLS AND
NIGHTS OUT, PASSING INFORMATION
ABOUT W.A.P.S. TESTING.
BILL HAS ALL QUESTIONS FOR THE
TEST."
W.A.P.S. STANDS FOR WEIGHTED
AIRMAN PROMOTION TEST, WHICH ALL
MILITARY PERSONNEL MUST PASS IN
ORDER TO GAIN PROMOTION.
KATHLEEN'S ENTRY SUGGESTED THAT
HER ESTRANGED HUSBAND, BILL, HAD
CHEATED.
BILL LIPSCOMB HAD BEEN PROMOTED
FASTER THAN ANY OTHER MASTER
SERGEANT IN AIR FORCE HISTORY.
THIS ENTRY POSSIBLY EXPLAINED
WHY.
SINCE THESE CHEATING ALLEGATIONS
INVOLVED THE AIR FORCE,
DR. CHARLES McDOWELL JOINED THE
INVESTIGATION AS PART OF THE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE OFFICE
OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS.
>> IF YOU HAVE A RELATED
PERIPHERAL CRIME -- WHICH IN ITS
OWN RESPECT, I GUESS, WAS
SERIOUS ENOUGH BUT CERTAINLY
DOESN'T COMPARE TO A MURDER
CASE -- THAT GIVES YOU A VENUE
OF ACCESS THAT MAKES IT EASIER
TO GET CLOSER TO YOUR SUBJECT.
>> Narrator: WHILE REVIEWING THE
CRIME-SCENE PHOTOS, DR. McDOWELL
MADE AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
>> THE POSITIONING OF THE BODY
AND THE CONTEXT OF HOW IT WAS
FOUND SUGGESTED TO ME THAT THE
SCENE HAD BEEN STAGED IN ORDER
TO CONVEY AN IMPRESSION THAT
THIS WAS A RAPE/MURDER, AND THIS
IS WHERE THE VICTIM WOUND UP,
AND IT DIDN'T HAVE A RING OF
AUTHENTICITY TO IT.
>> WITHIN 30, 45 MINUTES OF
REVIEWING THE EVIDENCE, HE TOLD
US THAT BILL DID IT.
BILL WAS ACTUALLY THE MURDERER,
WHERE WE HAD ALL, AT THAT POINT,
THOUGHT HE JUST PAID SOMEONE TO
DO IT.
>> Narrator: FURTHERMORE,
McDOWELL BELIEVED KATHLEEN'S
CROSSED LEGS REVEALED THE BODY
HAD BEEN STORED IN A SMALL
CRAMPED SPACE AFTER DEATH WHEN
RIGOR MORTIS SET IN.
McDOWELL ALSO SUSPECTED THAT
SOMEONE OTHER THAN THE KILLER
HAD DUMPED THE BODY.
THAT'S BECAUSE KILLERS WHO KNOW
THEIR VICTIMS TEND TO COVER THE
BODY OR CONCEAL THE VICTIM'S
FACE, WHICH WASN'T DONE IN THIS
CASE.
>> THAT BECAME EXTREMELY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IF YOU HAVE
MULTIPLE PLAYERS IN A CRIME, YOU
HAVE BETTER OPPORTUNITIES FOR
IDENTIFYING -- FIRST OF ALL, FOR
IDENTIFYING WHO THEY ARE, AND
THEN FOR PLAYING ONE OFF AGAINST
THE OTHER.
>> Narrator: AND KATHLEEN'S
DAUGHTER, NOW 9 YEARS OLD,
REVEALED ANOTHER PIECE OF NEW
INFORMATION.
>> SHE SAID TO ME, "GRANDMA, WHO
DO YOU THINK KILLED MY MOTHER,"
OR "MY MAMA?"
AND I SAID, "I DON'T KNOW.
WHO DO YOU THINK KILLED YOUR
MAMA?"
AND SHE TOLD ME, "MY DADDY DID
BECAUSE HE WASN'T WHERE HE SAID
HE WAS THAT NIGHT."
>> HEY, TONY, WHAT'S UP, BUDDY?
>> Narrator: THE CHILDREN NOW
REVEALED THEY WERE WITH THEIR
FATHER'S BEST FRIEND
TONY BURELLO, WHO HAD TAKEN THEM
OUT FOR DINNER ON THE NIGHT
THEIR MOTHER WAS KILLED.
>> YOU GUYS HAVE A GOOD TIME.
>> Narrator: AND LATER THAT SAME
NIGHT, THE CHILDREN SAID THEY
WOKE UP AND DISCOVERED THEIR
FATHER WAS NOT HOME AND HIS CAR
WAS GONE.
>> I REMEMBER ASKING TOM BEVANS
ONE DAY, "WHAT DO THEY WANT, A
PICTURE WITH HIS HANDS AROUND
HER NECK?"
TO ME, WE HAD SO MUCH EVIDENCE
THAT WAS POINTING TO HIM, AND WE
KEPT GETTING TOLD, "NO, IT'S NOT
ENOUGH.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH."
I WAS, LIKE, "YOU KNOW, THERE
WASN'T ANYBODY THERE TO TAKE A
PICTURE FOR YOU."
>> Narrator: BEVANS THEN
REQUESTED FORENSIC TESTING OF
THE BIOLOGICAL EVIDENCE
COLLECTED DURING KATHLEEN'S
AUTOPSY TO DETERMINE THE
IDENTITY OF THE PERSON KATHLEEN
HAD BEEN WITH BEFORE HER DEATH.
INEXPLICABLY, IN THE TWO YEARS
SINCE THE MURDER, THE SAMPLE HAD
BEEN MISLABELED, THEN
MISHANDLED.
FORENSIC TESTING WAS NO LONGER
POSSIBLE.
PROSECUTORS NEEDED MORE THAN
JUST CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE TO
CORROBORATE THE CHILDRENS'
STORY.
>> Narrator: KATHLEEN LIPSCOMB'S
FAMILY HIRED A PRIVATE
INVESTIGATOR TO HELP SOLVE HER
MURDER.
AN ENTRY IN KATHLEEN'S DIARY
SUGGESTED THAT HER ESTRANGED
HUSBAND, BILL, HAD CHEATED ON
HIS MILITARY PROMOTION TESTS,
AND KATHLEEN KNEW IT.
IN ADDITION, THE DIVORCE
PROCEEDINGS BETWEEN BILL AND
KATHLEEN HAD BEEN BITTER.
BILL WANTED CUSTODY OF THE
CHILDREN, AND KATHLEEN WASN'T
ABOUT TO LET THAT HAPPEN.
WAS IT POSSIBLE THAT KATHLEEN
HAD BEEN USING THAT INFORMATION
AS BLACKMAIL IN HER CUSTODY
BATTLE?
>> SHE KNEW IT, AND HE KNEW THAT
IT WOULD BUST HIM, SO THAT'S THE
BUTTON SHE USED.
I MEAN, SHE PUSHED IT, AND HE
TOLD HER, "YOU CAN'T DO THIS
BECAUSE IF YOU DO, YOU'RE GOING
TO END UP ON A COLD SLAB."
>> Narrator: AT THE CRIME SCENE,
KATHLEEN'S CLOTHING WAS NEATLY
ROLLED, SUGGESTING SOMEONE WITH
MILITARY TRAINING DUMPED THE
BODY.
THE ONLY OTHER MILITARY PERSON
AROUND BILL LIPSCOMB'S HOME THAT
WEEKEND WAS TONY BURELLO.
MONTHS AFTER THE CRIME, BURELLO
HAD BEEN DISHONORABLY DISCHARGED
FROM THE AIR FORCE.
WHEN QUESTIONED, HE WAS EAGER TO
TALK.
>> HE SAID HE WOULD GO TO
CHURCH.
HE COULD HEAR GOD TELLING HIM,
"CONFESS, CONFESS YOUR SINS,"
AND THAT'S WHAT CHANGED TONY.
>> Narrator: TONY BURELLO
IMMEDIATELY ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HE
HAD DUMPED KATHLEEN'S BODY IN
THE FIELD JUST AS DR. McDOWELL
SUSPECTED, AND BURELLO SAID THAT
BILL LIPSCOMB WAS THE KILLER.
HE ALSO CONFIRMED SOMETHING
ELSE -- THAT KATHLEEN'S BODY WAS
STORED IN A CEDAR CHEST, WHICH
EXPLAINED WHY HER LEGS WERE
FOLDED WHEN RIGOR MORTIS SET IN.
SURPRISINGLY, TONY BURELLO STILL
HAD THE CHEST.
HE SAID BILL LIPSCOMB ASKED HIM
TO DISPOSE OF IT AFTER THE
MURDER, BUT FOR SOME REASON,
TONY KEPT IT.
FORENSIC SCIENTISTS FOUND A TINY
STAIN ON THE BOTTOM OF THE
CHEST.
TESTING CONFIRMED THAT IT WAS
KATHLEEN'S BLOOD.
TONY BURELLO MET WITH
BILL LIPSCOMB WHILE WEARING A
HIDDEN MICROPHONE, BUT HE DIDN'T
SAY ANYTHING INCRIMINATING, SO
INVESTIGATORS DEVISED ANOTHER
STRATEGY.
>> THIS WAS AN EVENT THAT WAS A
CONSEQUENCE OF A MARRIAGE THAT
WENT BAD.
THERE WAS A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
ANGER, THERE WAS A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF HOSTILITY.
I WANTED TO SEE IF I COULD FEEL
THAT HOSTILITY SO I COULD
UNDERSTAND IT AND UNDERSTAND HIS
REACTION TO IT, AND THEN DEVELOP
AN INVESTIGATIVE METHODOLOGY
THAT WOULD COUNTER THAT AND DEAL
WITH HIS OWN PSYCHOLOGY.
>> Narrator: THE OSI MADE SURE
THAT BILL LIPSCOMB KNEW HE WAS
BEING INVESTIGATED.
>> I WANTED HIM TO HEAR
FOOTSTEPS THAT WEREN'T THERE, I
WANTED HIM TO HAVE THAT FEELING
IN THE PIT OF HIS STOMACH EVERY
TIME THE PHONE RANG, I WANTED
HIM TO WORRY ABOUT WHETHER TODAY
WAS GOING TO BE THE DAY THAT HE
HEARD THE KNOCK ON THE DOOR, I
WANTED TO RAISE HIS LEVEL OF
ANXIETY.
>> Narrator: EVENTUALLY, BILL'S
FORMER GIRLFRIEND
SHANNON GILBERT ADMITTED THAT
BILL ONCE CONFIDED TO HER THAT
HE PLANNED TO KILL KATHLEEN.
AND INVESTIGATORS LET LIPSCOMB
KNOW THAT BOTH GILBERT AND
BURELLO WERE COOPERATING.
>> BILL LIPSCOMB WAS PLAYING
MIND GAMES WITH US, AND WE WERE
PLAYING MIND GAMES WITH HIM.
>> Narrator: AFTER WEEKS OF
THESE PSYCHOLOGICAL TACTICS,
DR. McDOWELL BROUGHT
BILL LIPSCOMB IN FOR
QUESTIONING.
DR. McDOWELL VIVIDLY REMEMBERS
THE EXCHANGE.
>> "OF ALL THE WAYS THIS HAD TO
END, I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY IT
HAD TO END THE WAY IT DID.
WHY DID YOU KILL HER?"
AND HE SAID, "I DON'T KNOW WHY I
KILLED HER."
BUT THEN HE IMMEDIATELY CAUGHT
HIMSELF AND LEANED FORWARD AND
CROSSED HIS ARMS AND SAID, "I
DID NOT KILL MY WIFE."
BUT WE HAD HIM.
>> THREE OF US WITHIN THE
SHERIFF'S OFFICE TRIED TO GET IN
ON THE SAME LEVEL AS BILL AND
GET HIM TO BREAK, AND WE
COULDN'T DO IT.
WE COULD NOT DO IT.
>> Narrator: PROSECUTORS BELIEVE
KATHLEEN THREATENED TO EXPOSE
BILL'S CHEATING ON THE MILITARY
EXAMS IF HE TRIED TO GET CUSTODY
OF THE CHILDREN.
AND WITH THAT...
BILL SOUGHT REVENGE.
ON THE DAY OF THE MURDER, BILL
ASKED TONY BURELLO TO TAKE THE
CHILDREN TO DINNER.
THEN HE CALLED KATHLEEN, ASKING
HER TO PICK UP THE CHILDREN
EARLIER THAN PLANNED.
[ KNOCK ON DOOR ]
WHEN KATHLEEN ARRIVED AND
NOTICED THE CHILDREN MISSING,
THE TWO ARGUED.
>> WHERE ARE THE KIDS?
>> THEY WANTED TO GO TO
McDONALD'S, SO TONY TOOK THEM TO
McDONALD'S.
>> Narrator: AND AT SOME POINT,
BILL STRANGLED HER TO DEATH.
BILL STORED THE BODY IN A CHEST
UNTIL NIGHTFALL.
KATHLEEN'S BLOOD WAS FOUND IN
THE CHEST.
ONCE THE CHILDREN WERE ASLEEP,
TONY BURELLO DUMPED KATHLEEN'S
BODY IN THE FIELD, TRYING TO
MAKE IT APPEAR TO BE A SEX
CRIME.
BUT THE POSITIONING OF THE BODY
AND THE FACT THE BODY WAS
UNCOVERED REVEALED THE TRUTH --
THAT SOMEONE OTHER THAN THE
KILLER WAS INVOLVED.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE RED HAIRS ON
KATHLEEN'S CLOTHING?
>> I BELIEVE THE HAIRS WERE
PLANTED BY BILL LIPSCOMB OR HIS
PARTNER, ONE OF THE TWO, TO MAKE
IT LOOK -- NATURALLY THROW US
OFF TO GO LOOKING FOR SOMEONE
ELSE.
>> Narrator: INVESTIGATORS LATER
IDENTIFIED THE WOMAN WHO WAS
SEEN LEAVING KATHLEEN'S
APARTMENT AFTER HER MURDER.
SHE WAS A CO-WORKER WHO HAD GONE
TO CHECK ON KATHLEEN WHEN SHE
DIDN'T SHOW UP FOR WORK.
BILL LIPSCOMB PLED GUILTY TO HIS
WIFE'S MURDER TO AVOID THE DEATH
PENALTY.
HE WAS SENTENCED TO LIFE IN
PRISON.
IN RETURN FOR HIS COOPERATION,
TONY BURELLO AVOIDED
PROSECUTION.
NO CHARGES WERE BROUGHT AGAINST
SHANNON GILBERT, WHO CHANGED HER
NAME AND IS NOW IN THE FEDERAL
WITNESS-PROTECTION PROGRAM.
PROSECUTORS DO NOT BELIEVE
KATHLEEN'S BOYFRIEND,
DR. DAVID PEARL, HAD ANYTHING TO
DO WITH THE CRIME.
FORENSIC PATHOLOGY, FORENSIC
PSYCHOLOGY, AND CRIME-SCENE
RECONSTRUCTION HELPED SOLVE A
VERY COMPLICATED CASE.
>> THERE'S ONE THING THAT YOU
REALLY DO NEED TO INCLUDE IS
THAT THIS WAS A VERY COMPLEX
INVESTIGATION.
IT INVOLVED A VERY LARGE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE AND A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF CAREFUL COORDINATION
AND ORCHESTRATION.
I FEEL KIND OF GUILTY BECAUSE
YOU'RE INTERVIEWING ME.
>> PEOPLE WHO COMMIT CRIME THINK
THAT THEY'RE VERY, VERY BRIGHT
AND THAT THE REST OF US OUT HERE
THAT TRY TO SOLVE CRIMES OR WORK
ON CRIMES, ARE INVOLVED WITH LAW
ENFORCEMENT, ARE NOT VERY
BRIGHT.
MOST OFTEN, IT'S THE OTHER WAY
AROUND.